Now, you know what states are.
In this video, we're going to
introduce parts of speech tags.
In other words, you will see how you
can go from one state to another state.
In doing so, we will define a term
that we call transition probabilities.
These transition probabilities tell
you about the chances of going from
one POS tag to another.
If you think about a sentence as a
sequence of words with associated part of
speech tags.
You can represent that
sequence with a graph.
Where the parts of speech tags
are events that can occur.
Depicted by the state of our model graph.
In this example, NN is for
announce, VB is for verbs.
And other, stands for all other tags.
The edges of the graph have weights or
transition probabilities
associated with them.
Which defined the probability of
going from one state to another.
There is one less important property
that's Markov chains possess.
The so called Markov property.
Which states that the probability
of the next event only
depends on the current event.
The Markov property helps
keep the model simple.
By saying, all you need to determine
the next state is the current states.
It doesn't need information from
any of the previous states.
Going back to the analogy whether water
is in solid, liquid or gas states.
If you look at a cup of water
that is sitting outside.
The current state of
the water is a liquid states.
When modeling the probability that
the water in the cup will transition into
the gas states.
You don't need to know
the previous history of the water.
Whether it's previously
came from ice cubes.
Or whether it's previously
came from rain clouds.
That makes sense, right.
Let's revisit the sentence
example from earlier.
If you look at this sentence again and
want to know the probability
that the next word.
Following learn is a noun.
Then this just depends on
the current state that you're in.
In this case,
the verb states denoted by VB.
Because the current word learn is a verb.
So, the probability of
the next word being a noun.
Is the transition probability for going
from the verb to the noun and N states.
The transition probability is written
on the arrow that goes from VB to NN.
And as you can see, it's 0.4.
You can also use a table to store
the states and transition probabilities.
A table is an equivalent but more compact
representation of the Markov chain model.
And this table is called
a transition matrix.
A transition matrix is an N by N matrix,
with N being the number
of states in the graph.
Each role in the matrix represents
transition probabilities of one
states to all other states.
For example, the first row represents the
case where the current state is announced.
The columns represent the possible
future states that might come next.
The values inside the table represent
the transition probability of going
from a noun to a noun.
From a noun to a verb and
they a noun to some other states.
Notice that for
all the outgoing transition
probabilities from a given state.
These some of these transition
probabilities should always be one.
Equivalently in the transition matrix.
All of the transition probabilities
in each row should add up to one.
Some of you may have noted one
little flaw in this model.
It doesn't tell you how to assign a part
of speech tag to the first word in
the sentence.
This is because all of the states and
the model corresponds to words.
But what do you do when
there is no previous word?
As in the case, when beginning a sentence.
To handle this, you can introduce
what is known as an initial state.
By, you include these
probabilities in the table A.
So now, it has dimensions and
plus one by N.
Notice that the transition matrix can be
written as an actual matrix like this.
To recap, Markov chains consists
of a set queue of N states.
Q1 all the way to QN.
The transition matrix A has
the dimensions N plus 1 by N.
With the initial probabilities
in the first row.
Nice work so far.
I'll see you later.
In this video, you learned about
initial probability distributions.
And you learned about
transition probabilities.
In the next video, you're going to
learn about hidden Markov models.
Which are used to decode
the hidden states of a word.
In our case, that would be
the part of speech of that word